---
layout: post
comments: true
title:  "Emacs Leveraged Commands"
excerpt: "learning notes on Emacs study."
date:   2016-10-20
mathjax: true
---

As I have to deal with the plain text file in Windows and I want to solve this issue with elegant behavior, I know I need to choose the tool Vim or Emacs. This time, the Windows platform has helped me make my decision, the Emacs. Comparing with Vim, I think there's much less deployment part to start my work.

I won't finish this post at once. In fact, I prepare to add contents in this post as I learned new skills of Emacs.

### Replace String

Here I need to replace the newline with space, and replace `XXX:` as `[newline]XXX:`.

```
M-x C-q C-j RET [Space] RET
```

- `C-q Cj` represents newline.
- `RET` represents keyboard Enter
- `[Space]` just as keyboard Space

Special characters:

- `FF`, page break: `C-q C-l`.
- `Br`.

### Search Text in Multiple Files

Use one complicated command as example. Search text line with *<xsl:output* but **exclude** *UTF-8* in all *\*.xsl* or *\*.XSL* files. In fact, here we just use the Unix command to finish our task in Emacs. You need to use `M-!` to enter the shell mode.

```
find . -type f -iname "*.xsl" -print0 | xargs -0 -e grep -nH -e "<xsl:output" | grep -v "UTF-8"
```

This complicated command contains 4 parts: `find`, `xargs`, `grep` and `grep`.

- `find` part: search *file* type under `.` folder, with case insensitive name *\*.xsl*. Output with `-print0` option, which will be used in `xargs -0`.
- `xargs` part: construct parameter for the following `grep`. Use `-0` option to deal with file name containing *space* or other *special characters*.
- 1st `grep` part: search text *<xsl:output*.
- 2nd `grep` part: ignoring text *UTF-8*.

Also, if you only want to search *\*.xsl* file containing *<xsl:output* text, you can just use Emacs command `rgrep` directly. You need to press `M-x` and then type `rgrep`.

